# 🤖 14.09.2022 - Thought on posthuman condition in late stage capitalism

Societies are run by machines, just like Deleuze said; and how Plastic Pill has very well summarised in his pod episodes, links below. Machines are systems that classify people by different properties and later exercise control over them, look to Foucault on how different systems oppress and control people to adhere to norms. Some systems have evolved to use access control rather than direct oppression. In the end whatever way systems apply to us, they see us as sets of properties rather than subjects, now we are negated. In this sense capitalism is posthuman, because it is changing the subject from human to data sets. We as humans can only have a human-oriented view of the world.

I personally think that negation of human subject is just a coincidental result of post-modern systems evolving. The answer to this negation should be negation of negation. Designing a system that is humanistic in nature, humanistic socialism as Fromm put it, ergo has human as subjects. Only then we can go a step forward to other posthumanism that extends subjects to animals, trees etc. Then we can do a fusion of subject and object without negation of a human, Object-oriented Ontology if you will, post-Kantian but Heideggerian.

Further reading:

[Pill Pod 74 - Post Posthumanism](https://plasticpills.podbean.com/e/pill-pod-74-post-posthumanism/)

[Pill Pod 78 - The Posthumanism Manifesto](https://plasticpills.podbean.com/e/pill-pod-78-the-posthumanism-manifesto/)

[Deleuze - Control Societies & Cybernetic Posthumanism (Plastic Pill)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hu4Cq_-bLlY)